% glyrc(1)
% Christopher Pahl <sahib@online.de>, Etienne Millon
% May 9 2012

NAME
====

glyrc - search engine for music-related metadata

USAGE
=====

    glyrc GETTER [options]

where GETTER must be one of:

   - cover
   - lyrics
   - artistphoto
   - artistbio
   - similarartists
   - similarsongs
   - albumreview
   - albumlist
   - tags
   - relations
   - tracklist
   - guitartabs
   - backdrops

GENERAL OPTIONS
===============

#### \-f \-\-from String
Providers from where to get metadata. Refer to glyrc --list for a full list

#### \-w \-\-write Path
Write metadata to the dir d, or filename d, special values stdout, stderr
and null are supported.

Certain escapes are escaped inside the filename in the form :X:, where X may be one of:

   - type     : The getter used in this query (e.g. cover)
   - artist   : Artist - as passed by -a
   - album    : Album  - as passed by -b
   - title    : Title  - as passed by -t
   - size     : Size in bytes
   - format   : The image format or 'txt' for textitems
   - source   : The source URL of this item
   - prov     : The Provider of this item
   - cksum    : a md5sum of the data
   - rating   : (Usually 0)
   - duration : (Only for tracks) Duration in seconds
   - number   : An index incremented with each item (starting with 1)

The default format is ':artist:_:album:_:title:_:type:_:number:.:format:'
Strings containing '/' are replaced with '|' automatically,
so --write ':artist:' for AC/DC will result in AC|DC

#### \-n \-\-number Integer
Download max. n items. Amount of actual downloaded items may be less.

#### \-l \-\-lang String
Language settings. Used by a few getters to deliever localized data. Given in ISO 639\-1 codes like 'de'

#### \-o \-\-only\-lang
Only use providers that offer language specific data, this only applies for text items.

#### \-z \-\-fuzzyness Integer
Set threshold for level of Levenshtein algorithm.

#### \-q \-\-qsratio Float
How to weight quality/speed; 1.0 = full quality, 0.0 = full speed.

#### \-x \-\-plugmax Integer
Maximum number od download a plugin may deliever. Use to make results more vary.

#### \-v \-\-verbosity Integer
Set verbosity from 0 to 4. See online README for details.

NETWORK OPTIONS
===============

#### \-p \-\-parallel Integer
Define the number of downloads that may be performed in parallel.

#### \-u \-\-useragent String
The useragent to use during HTTP requests

#### \-r \-\-redirects Integer
Define the number of redirects that are allowed.

#### \-m \-\-timeout Integer
Define the maximum number in seconds after which a download is cancelled.

#### \-k \-\-proxy String
Set the proxy to use in the form of [protocol://][user:pass@]yourproxy.domain[:port]

PROVIDER SPECIFIC OPTIONS
=========================

#### \-d \-\-download
Download Images.

#### \-D \-\-skip\-download
Don't download images, but return the URLs to them (act like a search engine)

#### \-a \-\-artist String
Artist name to search for

#### \-b \-\-album String
Album name to search for

#### \-t \-\-title String
Songname to search for

#### \-e \-\-maxsize Integer
(images only) The maximum size a cover may have.

#### \-i \-\-minsize Integer
(images only) The minimum size a cover may have.

#### \-F \-\-formats String
A semicolon separated list of imageformats that are allowed. e.g.: "png;jpeg"

#### \-8 \-\-force\-utf8
Forces utf8 encoding for text items, invalid encodings get sorted out

MISC OPTIONS
============

#### \-L \-\-list
List all fetchers and source providers for each and exit.

#### \-h \-\-help
This text you unlucky wanderer are viewing.

#### \-V \-\-version
Print the version string.

#### \-U \-\-update
Updates libglyr if new version is available.

#### \-g \-\-as\-one
(Textitems only) Output all results as one (useful for tracklist and albumlist).

#### \-G \-\-no\-as\-one
Disables \-\-as-one (Default)

#### \-y \-\-color

Enables colored output for glyrc (Default)

#### \-Y \-\-no-color

Prints no colored output

#### \-s \-\-musictree\-path p
p is a path to your music directory. Glyr might fetch things like folger.jpg from there

#### \-j \-\-callback Command
Set a bash command to be executed when a item is finished downloading; The
special string \<path\> is expanded with the actual path to the data.

DATABASE OPTIONS
================

#### \-c \-\-cache folder
Creates or opens an existing cache at folder/metadata.db and lookups data from there.

#### cache select [Query]
Selects data from the cache; you can use any other option behind this.

#### cache delete [Query]
Instead of searching for this element, the element is deleted from the database.
Needs --cache.

#### cache list
List all items in the database (including the artist / album / title / type).
Needs --cache.

EXAMPLES
========

    glyrc cover --artist SomeBand --album SomeAlbum

DB:

    # Write found items to cache; create it if not existant
    glyrc lyrics -a A -b B --cache /tmp

    # List all in the cache
    glyrc cache list --cache /tmp

    # Delete artist/album
    glyrc cache delete cover -a Equilibrium -b Sagas --cache /tmp

    # Search for two items in cache and print them
    glyrc cache select lyrics -a Knorkator -t 'A' -n 2 --cache /tmp

With each item received you get a link to the original source, please refer to
the individual terms of use, copying and distributing of this data might be not
allowed.

A more detailed version of this help can be found online:
https://github.com/sahib/glyr/wiki/Commandline\-arguments
